collaboratorHow to work with your design team for the best results on a website redesign: Lessons learned from interviewing designers about their work.

For my dissertation research I sat down and interviewed over 25 designers. 16 as part of the piloting process, and 10 for the dissertation research. I asked them questions about their process that gave me an understanding of how designers work. I'm writing this so that if you work with designers on a web project, either an internal team, a freelancer, or an outside design agency, you can maximize your outcomes.

You are not your customers
This is a mantra amongst designers. The quality of the website will ultimately be determined by your budget and the ability and willingness of your design team to get access to the people who use your business. If you do market research, and customer research, given the team access to that information. If you can afford to do a process based on user research, it is worth it. Both branding and User Experience research are great opportunities to get a better idea about your business.

You will never have given the design team enough information
A website redesign, or launch is the translation of your brands identity into a digital format. This translation metaphor is literal, and if your design team cares about the fidelity of that transfer, they will undoubtably need to talk with you more than once. If you work for a large business establish a person who is responsible for communication, if you are a small company, set aside time to check in with your designers. They'll always want to know more about your business.

Each time you are signing off on a document, you are getting a deliverable
Or you should be. Many design firms put a lot of effort into the definition and research phases of a project. Experimental research shows that experienced designers, spend significantly more time with the clients than dreaming up solutions. Experience firms will recognize this, and have process structured around it. Every thing they show you will either be clarifying the design problem, or a prototype testing a solution. All of these are valuable, even if the relationship sours, you can take this and use it to speed work with another firm.

 Trust them to do their job and communicate honestly
 Design teams are always listening to the clients reaction. Most of those I interviewed say that they have to really listen for a clients reaction, to tell if there work is liked. Too many people are afraid to tell them that they don't like something, and so they have to separate responses into acceptance and enthusiasm columns. The more honest you can be the better.

Believe in the process
Most design teams and designers spend a lot of time on process improvement. They are aware that a significant part of their business is essentially consulting, and they know that they need to have a well developed system for moving your project from dream (or need) to live site. The same way that a wood worker or machinist will customize their shops for their own efficiency, web professionals are constantly refine the way that they think about and communicate with you to make you happy and your business successful.

Become a collaborator
Redeveloping or launching a website or an app is an opportunity to engage in strategic analysis for your business. Your design team will likely want you to help them as a collaborator by participating in design activities. Many of the designers I talked to, have a specific collaboration stage in their process where they want to you to help them either actively improve their design, through revisions, or to actually design with them. These are opportunities for you to bring the unique hard won knowledge, you have gained of your business to the project. Articulating that knowledge will help you clarify your own strategic outlook, and may help you realize fully things you may have known, but not been able to express or think about.
