---
layout: post
title:  "Weeknotes 2019 #2"
catagories: [blog, weeknotes]
tags: [January, 2019, January 2019, Weeknotes]
date: 11th January, 2019
---
# Week 2, Fight!
This week was all about keeping the momentum going. I got back to my work gig, and moved forward with finding a "real job". I am still waiting for something more than a nibble in that regard. However, I am still hopeful, especially after my conversations this week.

## Last Weekend
Last weekend, I helped my partner hang her art in a local coffeeshop. I'm really proud of her, and her work is fantastic. I also got some really good coffee, which was an extra layer of icing on the cake.

I also had the opportunity to play some boardgames with my friend and his awesome husband. We played [Seikatsu](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/216428/seikatsu) a really fun game that has elements of Go and Chinese Checkers. I did fairly well, coming in first and second in the two games we played. I also played a round of [Clank!](https://www.amazon.com/Renegade-Game-Studios-0552RGS-Clank/dp/B01KAC6268), which is really fun. I won the game by about twenty points. My strategy can be summed up as; play as many cards as possible each hand. It tends to be a very viable one, as I tend to at least make it out of the dungeons when I play. Clanks!'s counterpart Space Clank! is also pretty good, but a lot harder.

I also finished a the last book in the trilogy I was reading, [The Autumn Republic](https://www.amazon.com/Autumn-Republic-Powder-Mage-Trilogy/dp/0316219118). The trilogy was pretty good, blending elements of fantasy with aspects of the napoleonic era. Not quite as interesting as the Sharpe's Novels, but I wasn't disapointed. The second book was the strongest in my opinion. There was a lot of energy spent *grocking* the first novel.

## Monday, January 7, 2019
Monday, was a lot of talking to people. I spent most of the day getting rehired into the university system for my current gig rescanning a set of [Piranesi Prints](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giovanni_Battista_Piranesi) for a digital humanities project. As someone who has studied designers and sits astride work that is heavily visual in nature, this project is a real joy to work on. I always feel really honored when I work on it.

I also started the process of getting hired as a course assistant for the department. Which was an interesting experience.

## Tuesday, January 8, 2018
Tuesday, was my first day back to work on the Piranesi project. I didn't do any scanning, but I did process images. The bound completed prints I scan, are in these huge volumes, of A0 sized paper (a rough estimate). In some volumes there are images that take up 2 of large sheets that were pasted together by the printer. Even with a specialty scanner like the one I use, a Zeutschel 14000 A0, creativity is required to make a scan in a way that doesn't damage the volumes. I managed to get several of these plates scanned at the end of 2019. But I hadn't been able to process them. I gave it a go at the very end of the term, but there was a lot of crashes due to size of the image files being manipulated. Those images got processed on Tuesday, and stitching the images together was even easier than I though it would be. Next week I'll be creating a documentation on the whole process.

While I worked I also caught up on some great podcasts. A particular favorite I got to get up to speed with was [The Ezra Klein Show](https://www.vox.com/ezra-klein-show-podcast). One of my favorite quotes from the week was from his show with Hasan Minhaj where Ezra said:
> "Media is powerful in constructing culture in those it effects."

Which I feel is a great summation of the power and limitations of *media*.
## Wednesday, January 9, 2019

Wednesday was a day I thought was going to be busy when it got started. I had a hair cut, coffee, a meetup, and a phone call with a recruiter on my schedule. At the end of the day only the phone call and the hair cut happened. Coffee got rescheduled for next week and the meetup was actually Thursday. I'm pretty good at avoiding missing things entirely, but I do have an unfortunate habit of building my week around the assumption that an event is happening a day earlier than they actually are. It makes thing stressful, but as they say at scout camp:
>Early is on time.
>On time is late.
>And late is **unacceptable**

 Wednesday was overall a much slower day than I expected.

In addition to being slower then expected, Wednesday also saw another really interesting piece of text pop up. This one is political in context, but I loved it because it says a lot about two things I am interested in as a scholar, information and argumentation. Speaker Pelosi was quoted as saying:
> "...the plural of anecdote is not data."

I really dug the remark, because so often in conversation we use and accept personal and second hand stories as a warrant for an action. However, when you think about those single points in a broader context, say, as a justification for policy on the level of a national government, they don't always add up to actionable intelligence. Also, on a semantic level it's interesting to me. In information studies we might say that multiple anecdotes are data (in the plural sense), and a singular anecdote is data (in the singular sense). That doesn't mean that in either anecdotes are useful or quality information. I could write 3000 words on this alone. so I'll just leave it at; I loved this quip.

## Thursday, January 10, 2019

The call with the recruiter on Wednesday went well enough that I was scheduled for a phone call with a team member on Thursday. The call fell through and that made Thursday slow like Wednesday. I was also a little bummed about missing the possibility to working with that particular team. Fortunately, the meetup in the evening gave me the something to look forward too...

... and boy! Did the meetup come through on its promise. Hosted by the local UX Community and hosted by the firm [Truematter](https://trumatter.com) it was a really informative look at the intersections between [UX and SEO](https://www.meetup.com/Columbia-UX-Meetup/events/257103671/). It was great to see how far the bleeding edge of SEO has come, and how Google is driving search rankings to be closely tied to the users' experience of a site. I learned a bunch about modern SEO, and met some great people.

Last night I finished reading a history of the First World War I was reading, [The War to End All Wars](https://www.amazon.com/War-End-All-Wars-World-ebook/dp/B00KPSXOZU/). It was a YA book, but its a good overview for when I read the other histories on WWI I currently have checked out from the library.

## Friday, January 11, 2019

Friday has so far been a pretty good day. I still have some house work to do like laundry, which I normally take care of in the afternoon. This morning I was taking it easy listening to some podcasts until I had a call to touch base with the instructor I'll be working with. It was great to talk with someone who is engaged with pedagogy in a manner that is in accordance with my own. I'm really excited to work on this class, and see how the student engage with the topic.

## Goals

* *Days Meditated*: **1/7**
* *Days Stretched*: **2/7**
* *Days Walked*: **3/7**
* *Calorie Tracking*: **3/5**

## Next Week

This weekend we're volunteering at a local shelter, which is always a good time. Next week, I'm looking forward to  helping get the class off the ground, creating documentation, and continuing to look for a long term work arrangements.
