---
layout: post
title:  "Weeknotes 2019 #3"
catagories: [blog, weeknotes]
tags: [January, 2019, January 2019, Weeknotes]
date: 20th January, 2019
---
# What a week
I feel like I actually didn't do that much this week. However, I suppose in reality I did get a lot done. Maybe it was all the walking I did earlier in the week, but this week was very sparse in my mind. One reason why I'm trying to do Weeknotes on the regular is to avoid this blurring.

# Monday, January 14th, 2019
Monday's have been pretty raw for me since my father passed away in December. I normally get the feels bad on Sunday, and then Monday my emotions feel like a freshly healed scrape, one that is still tender. My morning was slow, I kind of shuffled about and helped the dog go about her day. I did listen to a great interview with [Cal Newport](http://calnewport.com/blog/) on the [Ezra Klein Show](https://megaphone.link/VMP7212326144).

I spent a lot of the morning doing some reading and working with Python as part of an upskilling effort I am making. Made a bit of progress in [Automate the Easy Stuff with Python](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/). I also starting do some of the tutorials and such on [Kaggle.com](https://Kaggle.com).

A big goal I had on Monday was fixing up my linked in profile, to be a bit more professional for recruiters. That got done, and I got some calls and such from a few recruiters looking for UX Designers.

# Tuesday, January 15th, 2019
Tuesday was lunch with a few professors from SLIS and my partner. I walked to lunch and had a pretty good one, though I felt a lot of social awkwardness. I'm still feeling a bit off talking about my Dad. I worked off some of the social anxiety with house work, and playing around with Python.

# Wednesday, January 16th, 2019
Wednesday was first real day back at work. I spent the day creating and set of documentation around the scanning of oversized material using the Zeutschel 14000 A0 Scanner, and Photoshop's Photomerge feature. I am really proud of the work I did. More so after I redid the documentation using what I learned form the first pass in InDesign. I'm planning on putting a copy up in my portfolio, at some point.  

# Thursday, January 17th, 2019
Thursday was a big mind blowing day for me with the work I was doing towards upskilling. I had emailed [Dr. Karami](https://sc.edu/study/colleges_schools/cic/faculty-staff/karami_amir.php) with some questions and was inspired by his responses to get serious about monkeying around in a much more aggressive way. I installed Anaconda, which was a really really good idea. I spent the rest of the day working with the Kaggle Pandas tutorials. Sites like Kaggle are great because they force you to apply what you may have learned from a book, or youtube video, and actually do it.

# Friday, January 18th, 2019

Friday, was another Digital Collections day. I redesigned the documentation layout, and scanned a bit of Piranesi.  1 oversized page, so I got to run a "test" of the documentation. I had coffee with Dr. Freeburg, who was my committee chair. Ended the work day and hung out with some of the current doctoral students.   

#Weekly Goals
* *Days Meditated*: **0/5**
* *Days Stretched*: **3/5**
* *Days Walked*: **4/5**
* *Calorie Tracking*: **5/5**

# What I've Been Listening To
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/B9FzVhw8_bY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
I discovered the Dirty South via, the youtube algorithm. I really did their vibe. There was also a new single from the [Avette Brothers](https://open.spotify.com/album/0YtLK8WLQcAXlB1qGfn8yR?si=BsIS4KZCQNa8k2lH0hSB0Q) I came across.
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/artist/3HR1xtIsUefdFnkI1XHgeA" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>
